So that was Android emulator and the real device.
Now, what about iOS now important to build an Iowa app, you need the Mac OS operating system that
is a restriction applied by Apple.
You can't build your flutter app for hours on Windows or Linux.
You need Mac OS.
If you are on Mac OS, then you can of course also test the app on a simulator or also on a real device.
Now for that you need X code and I showed you how to install X code in the first module of this course.
So you should be able to launch X code and see that welcome screen.
They're now in there.
Open another project.
Click that button.
And then never get to your flutter project folder and there to the IOC folder and choose that runner
Xcode project file, open that as a project in Xcode.
Now, here you could write code, but that's not what we'll do.
We'll stick to visual pseudocode for that.
But here we can also configure this so that we can run it on a simulator.
And there's one important thing you need to set up.
Click on this project.
I here on this route, I can hear this root element in the left bar here where you can get by clicking
this folder icon here.
So click on that so that you have this view.
And then here you might see that signing for requires the development team for dad.
Here in this dropdown, you should choose a team and normally you should have one.
If you don't have a team here, click on add an account and add your application with your applied here
to X code.
So here you can even create a new one if you don't have one or you login with an existing account.
Now, important for developing iOS apps, you need an Apple developer account and you can activate one
for your applied, which you probably already have by going to developer dot apple dot com.
And there, click on account.
Now, here, you now have to login with your Apple ID and the process should start, which turns you
into an Apple developer, whilst you need to agree to some terms, what you don't need to do to develop
apps is pay.
You will have to pay a fee to really publish your app to the Apple App Store, but for developing and
testing your app, you don't need a paid account.
So no need to pay.
You just need a normal Apple developer account.
Once you have that, you should be able to select your team here in Xcode and use that for this project.
And once you did this once, you should be fine.
And now you can run your project either through Xcode by selecting a simulator here and clicking the
run button or select a real connect the device if you have one.
But you can also do it here from within Visual Studio Code by going to the terminal.
And there in your normal system terminal, you can run open.
Dash, a simulator taught app, and what this will do is it will bring up an ISIS simulator.
Here it is, close xcode, we don't need that anymore, let me move the Android simulator over there
and now here.
And now here is the IOC simulator, and again, you could have launched that through Xcode as well if
you wanted to.
Now this is booting up and as soon as the simulator is done booting up, we can select it down here.
Well, actually, I can already do that.
So you can select your simulator here in the bottom right corner of visual pseudocode by clicking on
that bar here, then select the iOS device or as before, shut down all our simulators, disconnect
all other devices from your machine and it should automatically pick this one.
And once did all of that just before you can again run your app there with the flutter run command or
through the debug menu here in visuals to do code and start without debugging, for example.
And now it is all the built the app, but it will now build it with the help of X code because now in
its app is built and once it's done building the app, it will ship it onto the simulator.
So let's wait for Dad to finish.
Here's the app running on iOS now, and one thing you might notice is that it looks exactly the same
as it looks on an Android device.
The reason for that is that Flutter does not automatically adjust the styles to the IRS.
Look, it does not automatically give you the IRS.
Look, remember that with Lawder, you in the end use a framework that controls every pixel.
It's not using native device or native platform user interface elements.
So a button here is not compiled to an IRS button for I was sent to an Android button for Android.
Instead, a button always looks the same because Flutter draws it onto the screen.
It's not using some platform primitive, not a built in UI element.
And therefore these apps look similar.
Now, later, and of course you will indeed learn how to adjust your look, though, other than the
font, the font family is actually different automatically.
But you will learn how you can adjust your app to look like an Android app on Android and iOS app on
us.
If you want that or you create your own look for all platforms, whatever you need, all that is possible
with flutter.
And we'll of course, have a look at all these options throughout the course.
Now, more important than the look is, of course, that it works correctly and that is the case here.
So now we can also test you appear on the simulator and we're just fine.
Everything is working correctly now.
What about a real iOS device then?